examples/native-oft-adapter/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://layerzero.network">
    <img alt="LayerZero" style="width: 400px" src="https://docs.layerzero.network/img/LayerZero_Logo_White.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://layerzero.network" style="color: #a77dff">Homepage</a> | <a href="https://docs.layerzero.network/" style="color: #a77dff">Docs</a> | <a href="https://layerzero.network/developers" style="color: #a77dff">Developers</a>
</p>

<h1 align="center">NativeOFTAdapter Example</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://docs.layerzero.network/v2/developers/evm/oft/adapter" style="color: #a77dff">Quickstart</a> | <a href="https://docs.layerzero.network/contracts/oapp-configuration" style="color: #a77dff">Configuration</a> | <a href="https://docs.layerzero.network/contracts/options" style="color: #a77dff">Message Execution Options</a> | <a href="https://docs.layerzero.network/contracts/endpoint-addresses" style="color: #a77dff">Endpoint Addresses</a>
</p>

<p align="center">Template project for getting started with LayerZero's <code>NativeOFTAdapter</code> contract development.</p>

## 1) Developing Contracts

#### Installing dependencies

We recommend using `pnpm` as a package manager (but you can of course use a package manager of your choice):

```bash
pnpm install
```

#### Compiling your contracts

This project supports both `hardhat` and `forge` compilation. By default, the `compile` command will execute both:

```bash
pnpm compile
```

If you prefer one over the other, you can use the tooling-specific commands:

```bash
pnpm compile:forge
pnpm compile:hardhat
```

Or adjust the `package.json` to for example remove `forge` build:

```diff
- "compile": "$npm_execpath run compile:forge && $npm_execpath run compile:hardhat",
- "compile:forge": "forge build",
- "compile:hardhat": "hardhat compile",
+ "compile": "hardhat compile"
```

#### Running tests

Similarly to the contract compilation, we support both `hardhat` and `forge` tests. By default, the `test` command will execute both:

```bash
pnpm test
```

If you prefer one over the other, you can use the tooling-specific commands:

```bash
pnpm test:forge
pnpm test:hardhat
```

Or adjust the `package.json` to for example remove `hardhat` tests:

```diff
- "test": "$npm_execpath test:forge && $npm_execpath test:hardhat",
- "test:forge": "forge test",
- "test:hardhat": "$npm_execpath hardhat test"
+ "test": "forge test"
```

## 2) Deploying Contracts

Set up deployer wallet/account:

- Rename `.env.example` -> `.env`
- Choose your preferred means of setting up your deployer wallet/account:

```
MNEMONIC="test test test test test test test test test test test junk"
or...
PRIVATE_KEY="0xabc...def"
```

- Fund this address with the corresponding chain's native tokens you want to deploy to.

To deploy your contracts to your desired blockchains, run the following command in your project's folder:

```bash
npx hardhat lz:deploy
```

More information about available CLI arguments can be found using the `--help` flag:

```bash
npx hardhat lz:deploy --help
```

## 3) Wire

```bash
npx hardhat lz:oapp:wire --oapp-config layerzero.config.ts
```

## 4) Send

```bash
npx hardhat lz:oft:send --amount 1 --src-eid <SRC_EID> --to <EVM_RECIPIENT> --dst-eid <DST_EID> --extra-lz-receive-options "80000,0"
```

> `80000` as the gas value is sufficient for most EVM chains. For production, you should profile the gas usage of your pathways.

By following these steps, you can focus more on creating innovative omnichain solutions and less on the complexities of cross-chain communication.

<br></br>

<p align="center">
  Join our <a href="https://layerzero.network/community" style="color: #a77dff">community</a>! | Follow us on <a href="https://x.com/LayerZero_Labs" style="color: #a77dff">X (formerly Twitter)</a>
</p>

Commit message:

DEVREL-810 remove MyOFTMock usage (#1748)
Co-authored-by: Matthew Krak <krak@layerzerolabs.org>

examples/native-oft-adapter/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://layerzero.network">
    <img alt="LayerZero" style="width: 400px" src="https://docs.layerzero.network/img/LayerZero_Logo_White.svg"/>
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://layerzero.network" style="color: #a77dff">Homepage</a> | <a href="https://docs.layerzero.network/" style="color: #a77dff">Docs</a> | <a href="https://layerzero.network/developers" style="color: #a77dff">Developers</a>
</p>

<h1 align="center">NativeOFTAdapter Example</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://docs.layerzero.network/v2/developers/evm/oft/adapter" style="color: #a77dff">Quickstart</a> | <a href="https://docs.layerzero.network/contracts/oapp-configuration" style="color: #a77dff">Configuration</a> | <a href="https://docs.layerzero.network/contracts/options" style="color: #a77dff">Message Execution Options</a> | <a href="https://docs.layerzero.network/contracts/endpoint-addresses" style="color: #a77dff">Endpoint Addresses</a>
</p>

<p align="center">Template project for getting started with LayerZero's <code>NativeOFTAdapter</code> contract development.</p>

## 1) Developing Contracts

#### Installing dependencies

We recommend using `pnpm` as a package manager (but you can of course use a package manager of your choice):

```bash
pnpm install
```

#### Compiling your contracts

This project supports both `hardhat` and `forge` compilation. By default, the `compile` command will execute both:

```bash
pnpm compile
```

If you prefer one over the other, you can use the tooling-specific commands:

```bash
pnpm compile:forge
pnpm compile:hardhat
```

Or adjust the `package.json` to for example remove `forge` build:

```diff
- "compile": "$npm_execpath run compile:forge && $npm_execpath run compile:hardhat",
- "compile:forge": "forge build",
- "compile:hardhat": "hardhat compile",
+ "compile": "hardhat compile"
```

#### Running tests

Similarly to the contract compilation, we support both `hardhat` and `forge` tests. By default, the `test` command will execute both:

```bash
pnpm test
```

If you prefer one over the other, you can use the tooling-specific commands:

```bash
pnpm test:forge
pnpm test:hardhat
```

Or adjust the `package.json` to for example remove `hardhat` tests:

```diff
- "test": "$npm_execpath test:forge && $npm_execpath test:hardhat",
- "test:forge": "forge test",
- "test:hardhat": "$npm_execpath hardhat test"
+ "test": "forge test"
```

## 2) Deploying Contracts

Set up deployer wallet/account:

- Rename `.env.example` -> `.env`
- Choose your preferred means of setting up your deployer wallet/account:

```
MNEMONIC="test test test test test test test test test test test junk"
or...
PRIVATE_KEY="0xabc...def"
```

- Fund this address with the corresponding chain's native tokens you want to deploy to.

To deploy your contracts to your desired blockchains, run the following command in your project's folder:

```bash
npx hardhat lz:deploy
```

> If you need initial tokens on testnet for the EVM OFT, open `contracts/MyOFT.sol` and uncomment `_mint(msg.sender, 100000 * (10 ** 18));` in the constructor. Ensure you remove this line for production.

More information about available CLI arguments can be found using the `--help` flag:

```bash
npx hardhat lz:deploy --help
```

## 3) Wire

```bash
npx hardhat lz:oapp:wire --oapp-config layerzero.config.ts
```

## 4) Send

```bash
npx hardhat lz:oft:send --amount 1 --src-eid <SRC_EID> --to <EVM_RECIPIENT> --dst-eid <DST_EID> --extra-lz-receive-options "80000,0"
```

> `80000` as the gas value is sufficient for most EVM chains. For production, you should profile the gas usage of your pathways.

By following these steps, you can focus more on creating innovative omnichain solutions and less on the complexities of cross-chain communication.

<br></br>

<p align="center">
  Join our <a href="https://layerzero.network/community" style="color: #a77dff">community</a>! | Follow us on <a href="https://x.com/LayerZero_Labs" style="color: #a77dff">X (formerly Twitter)</a>
</p>
